README.md, before:

# MEAL PLANNER CLI APPLICATION

A command-line interface (CLI) tool for planning and managing meals, built in Python
BY Mary Gichana

## Description

The Meal Planner CLI Application is a minimalist yet functional tool designed to help users organize their meals efficiently. It demonstrates key programming concepts such as working with models, file handling, and command-line interfaces in Python. Users can add, view, edit, and delete meals and meal categories.

## Features

- Add, view ,delete meals and mealcategories
- Categorize meals by meal types (e.g., Breakfast, Lunch, Dinner)
- Search functionality to find specific meals and meal categories
- User-friendly CLI interface

## How to Use

### Requirements

A computer with Python 3.8+ installed
Basic understanding of how to use a terminal or command line

### Installation Process

1. Clone this repository using:
   git clone git@github.com:Mary-Gichana/TheMeal-Planner.git
2. Navigate to the project directory:
   cd Meal-planner
3. Install the required dependencies:
   pipenv install
   then pipenv shell
4. run the application
   python cli.py

## Technologies Used

Python 3.8+
SQLite (for data persistence)
CLI

## Support and Contact Details

If you have any questions, suggestions, or need assistance, please contact:

Email: marygichana95@gmail.com

## License

MIT License

Copyright (c) 2024 Mary Gichana

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.

Commit message:

added how themain menu works

README.md, after:

# MEAL PLANNER CLI APPLICATION

A command-line interface (CLI) tool for planning and managing meals, built in Python
BY Mary Gichana

## Description

The Meal Planner CLI Application is a minimalist yet functional tool designed to help users organize their meals efficiently. It demonstrates key programming concepts such as working with models, file handling, and command-line interfaces in Python. Users can add, view, edit, and delete meals and meal categories.

## Features

- Add, view ,delete meals and mealcategories
- Categorize meals by meal types (e.g., Breakfast, Lunch, Dinner)
- Search functionality to find specific meals and meal categories
- User-friendly CLI interface

## How to Use

### Requirements

- A computer with Python 3.8+ installed
- Basic understanding of how to use a terminal or command line

### Installation Process

1. Clone this repository using:
   git clone git@github.com:Mary-Gichana/TheMeal-Planner.git
2. Navigate to the project directory:
   cd Meal-planner
3. Install the required dependencies:
   - pipenv install
   - pipenv shell
4. run the application
   python cli.py
5. Choose from the main menu
   - manage categories - choice 1: there are options if you want to add, delete, a list of meal categories and find mealcategory by id
   - manage meals - choice 2: there are options if you want to add, delete a meal, view all meals and find meal by id
   - Exit - choice 3: if want to exit the CLI

## Technologies Used

- Python 3.8+
- SQLite (for data persistence)
- CLI (Command Line Interface)

## Support and Contact Details

If you have any questions, suggestions, or need assistance, please contact:

Email: marygichana95@gmail.com

## License

MIT License

Copyright (c) 2024 Mary Gichana

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.
